= RubyGems Verification

*Historical archive.* This repository holds the checksum lists, throwaway
comparison scripts, and gem status lists produced during the response to the
January 2013 rubygems.org compromise. Its contents have been frozen since that
time and are kept only as a historical record. It is not used for verifying
gems today: current checksum verification is handled by RubyGems and Bundler
themselves (the lockfile CHECKSUMS section, per-version SHA256 in the compact
index, and checksum verification at gem install time). Do not treat the tools
or data here as a current verification mechanism.

Using the SHA512 checksums supplied here, we have verified that all gems match
at least one third-party mirror or excluding gems that have been yanked.

Gems that have been yanked are not installable with rubygems or bundler.

Using rubygems_verify.rb 11798 gems were found with 2 or fewer checksums from
third-party mirrors or caches, again excluding gems that have been yanked.

These can be found in unverified.2_or_fewer_checksums.txt

All the gems with 2 or fewer checksums are pre-release versions according to:

  ruby -ne 'gets =~ /-(.*?)\.gem/; puts $_ unless $1 =~ /[a-zA-Z]' \
    unverified.2_or_fewer_checksums.txt

This finds the gem version and checks it for any alphabet character.  If it
contains any alphabet character it is a pre-release.

== SHA512 checksum lists

rubygems-sha512.S3.txt ::
  Checksums from rubygems.org's S3 repository

rubygems-sha512.automated_labs.txt ::
  Automated Labs mirror checksums

rubygems-sha512.bluebox.txt ::
  Blue Box mirror checksums

rubygems-sha512.google3rd.txt ::
  Google third-party depot checksums

rubygems-sha512.google_ghost.txt ::
  Google "ghost" repository checksums

rubygems-sha512.heroku.txt ::
  Heroku application caches checksums.  This is not a mirror so there are some
  gems from git here.

rubygems-sha512.sj26.txt ::
  The Conversation (http://theconversation.edu.au/) mirror checksum
  provided by Samuel Cochran from 17 Nov 2012

rubygems-sha512.stevenhaddox.txt ::
  Steven Haddox's local gems checksums

rubygems-sha512.swift.txt ::
  AT&T mirror checksums from 26 Nov 2012

rubygems-sha512.tao.txt ::
  RubyGems china mirror checksums.  Contains some corrupt gems

rubygems-sha512.terrcin.txt ::
  NZ Railscamp mirror checksums provided by Nahum Wild (@terrcin)

rubygems-sha512.tokyo.txt ::
  RubyGems tokyo mirror checksums

rubygems-sha512.yorickpeterse.txt ::
  Yorick Peterse gem checksums

== Additional scripts/tools

 * Mark was using `puf(1)`, `grep(1)` and similar tools.
 * Most of the scripts raggi used can be found in the `raggi/` subdirectory.
